doc/swapcool.md, before:

Density matrix simulation of the "sawtooth-wave adiabatic passage" laser cooling technique.

# General explanation
TODO

# Simulation details
TODO

## Detuning sawtooth oscillation
TODO

## Internal state simulation
TODO

## Motional and internal state simulation
TODO

# Usage
Run `make swapcool` in the top-level directory, set the parameters in `/config/params_swapcool.cfg`, then run `/bin/swapint` or `/bin/swapmotion`. Optionally give the path to the directory to write output to, and the path to the configuration file to use. For `swapmotion`, a final optional parameter, `--batch-mode` (or `-b` for short) can be specified to enable batch mode, which suppresses all console output.

## OpenMP Capability
If OpenMP is available on your machine, enable it by adding the appropriate compiler/linker flags when running make. I.e. compile swapcool with `make swapcool CFLAGS=-openmp FLAGS=-fopenmp`.

Set the number of threads with the environment variable `OMP_NUM_THREADS`. E.g. specify 4 threads by running `export OMP_NUM_THREADS=4`.

## Lab parameters
`params_swapcool.cfg` contains different experimental parameters that might need to be changed. They are read at runtime and don't require recompilation to change.

## Code parameters
Hard coded at the top of `swapint.cpp` and `swapmotion.cpp`, including parameters like the default configuration file name and the output file name. These shouldn't need to be modified, but if they do, simply change them and recompile.

Commit message:

Add setting to initialize to a special initial distribution

doc/swapcool.md, after:

Density matrix simulation of the "sawtooth-wave adiabatic passage" laser cooling technique.

# General explanation
TODO

# Simulation details
TODO

## Detuning sawtooth oscillation
TODO

## Internal state simulation
TODO

## Motional and internal state simulation
TODO

## Special antihydrogen initial distribution
In the ALPHA experiment, the initial distribution of axial momentum for antihydrogen in the 2s state is *not* thermal. The 1s distribution is thermal, and is excited to the 2s state via a laser beam. The probability that a given particle with speed v will be excited to the 2s state within a given time interval is proportional to 1/v_t, where v_t is the transverse component of the velocity with respect to the laser. The particle will bounce around the trap with the same speed, but changing direction constantly, until it gets excite to the 2s state. Thus the actual transverse momentum distribution will be skewed toward 0, and the axial distribution (which is what this program simulates), will be skewed *away* from 0. If the relevant flag is specified in the configuration file, the particles will be initialized with this special axial distribution.

# Dependencies
`swapmotion` relies on [GSL](https://www.gnu.org/software/gsl/) to perform numerical integration, which is needed to initialize the special antihydrogen 2s axial momentum distribution.

# Usage
Run `make swapcool` in the top-level directory, set the parameters in `/config/params_swapcool.cfg`, then run `/bin/swapint` or `/bin/swapmotion`. Optionally give the path to the directory to write output to, and the path to the configuration file to use. For `swapmotion`, a final optional parameter, `--batch-mode` (or `-b` for short) can be specified to enable batch mode, which suppresses all console output.

## OpenMP Capability
If OpenMP is available on your machine, enable it by adding the appropriate compiler/linker flags when running make. I.e. compile swapcool with `make swapcool CFLAGS=-openmp FLAGS=-fopenmp`.

Set the number of threads with the environment variable `OMP_NUM_THREADS`. E.g. specify 4 threads by running `export OMP_NUM_THREADS=4`.

## Lab parameters
`params_swapcool.cfg` contains different experimental parameters that might need to be changed. They are read at runtime and don't require recompilation to change.

## Code parameters
Hard coded at the top of `swapint.cpp` and `swapmotion.cpp`, including parameters like the default configuration file name and the output file name. These shouldn't need to be modified, but if they do, simply change them and recompile.
